PREMIER LEAGUE

The top three teams will qualify for the group stage of next season's Champions League, with the fourth-placed team set to enter in the play-off round.

The fifth-placed team will enter the Europa League at the group stage, as will the FA Cup winners.

Leicester City are guaranteed a top-four finish following their 2-0 win against Sunderland on 10 April and can clinch the title by taking eight points from their last four games.

Manchester City are already assured of at least a Europa League place after winning the Capital One Cup. If they finish in the top four, their place in the Europa League third qualifying round will pass to the sixth-placed team. The same will happen if they secure a place in the Europa League group stage by finishing fifth.

Should City win the Champions League and finish outside the top four, they will enter the Champions League at the group stage.

If Liverpool win the Europa League, they will qualify for the Champions League.

Uefa does not permit more than five teams from one association to play in the Champions League in one season. So if City and Liverpool both win their respective European trophies and both finish outside the top four, then the fourth-placed Premier League team will transfer to the Europa League.

There are no longer any Fair Play places allocated to the Europa League.

The bottom three teams will be relegated to the Championship.

Aston Villa's relegation was confirmed on 16 April by a 1-0 defeat against Manchester United at Old Trafford.

CHAMPIONSHIP

The top two teams will be promoted to the Premier League, with the next four teams entering the play-offs. Middlesbrough, Burnley, Brighton, Hull and Derby have guaranteed at least a play-off place.

The bottom three teams will be relegated to League One. Bolton were relegated on 9 April after a 4-1 defeat at Derby.Charlton went down on 19 April as they drew 0-0 at Bolton. MK Dons must win their final three games to stand a chance of survival, staring with Saturday's visit of Brentford. However, a win will not be enough if Rotherham take a point at Wolves and there are draws when Blackburn host Bristol City and Nottingham Forest travel to Fulham.

LEAGUE ONE

The top two teams will be promoted to the Championship, with the next four sides entering the play-offs. Leaders Wigan have secured at least a play-off place, with Burton and Walsall also close.

The bottom four teams will be relegated to League Two. Crewe were the first team to fall, relegated on 9 April after a 3-0 defeat at Port Vale. Colchester must take maximum points from their final three games in order to stay in the division - they host Burton on Saturday. However, wins for Fleetwood at home to Blackpool and Shrewsbury at Gillingham would relegate the Us even if they won, while Doncaster would also drop if they failed to take three points at home to Coventry.

LEAGUE TWO

The top three teams will be promoted to League One, with the next four sides entering the play-offs.

Leaders Northampton secured promotion on 9 April despite letting a 2-0 lead slip to draw 2-2 at home to Bristol Rovers and were crowned champions after a goalless draw at Exeter on 16 April. Accrington, Oxford, Plymouth and Bristol Rovers are all assured of at least a play-off place.

The bottom two teams will be relegated to the National League. Dagenham & Redbridge were relegated on 16 April after losing 3-2 at Leyton Orient - ending their nine-year stay in the Football League. York look certain to join them in non-league, as they are nine points from safety with three games to play. They visit second-placed Accrington on Saturday, while they will also be relegated if Newport pick up a point in their remaining games - they travel to Luton.

NATIONAL LEAGUE

The National League champions will be promoted to League Two, with the next four teams entering the play-offs.

Cheltenham clinched the title on 16 April after a comfortable 2-0 win at home to Halifax, sealing promotion back to the Football League at the first attempt. Second-placed Forest Green are assured of a play-off place with Grimsby and Dover close to joining them.

The bottom four teams will be relegated, and replaced by the champions and play-off winners of the National League North and South divisions.

Kidderminster and Welling were relegated on 16 April when they failed to beat Barrow and Chester respectively. Altrincham will be relegated on Saturday if Boreham Wood better their result - they host Welling and Guiseley respectively. Respective draws and losses would also effectively, if not mathematically, relegate the Robins due to their goal difference deficit.

Solihull Moors won the National League North title on 12 April.

SCOTTISH PREMIERSHIP

The Premiership splits in half after the 33rd round of games, with the top six and the bottom six playing the other teams in their 'half' for a fourth and final time.

The champions will enter the Champions League at the second qualifying round, with the second and third-placed teams making the Europa League first qualifying round, while the Scottish Cup winners will enter the second qualifying round.

Should Celtic win the Premiership and the Scottish Cup, the fourth-placed side in the league will qualify for the Europa League.

Celtic and Aberdeen are already assured of at least a Europa League place through their league position, while Hearts have qualified for the Europa League.

There are no longer any Fair Play places allocated to the Europa League.

The bottom team will be relegated to the Scottish Championship, while the 11th-placed side will face the winners of the Championship play-offs over two legs, with the losers condemned to a place in the second tier next season.

SCOTTISH CHAMPIONSHIP
Rangers were promoted to the Premiership as champions after they beat Dumbarton on 5 April.

The third and fourth-placed teams will meet in the first round of the play-offs, with the winners playing the division's second-placed team. Whoever emerges victorious from that two-legged encounter will face the second-bottom side in the Premiership - again on a home-and-away basis - with a spot in the top flight the prize.

Falkirk, Hibernian and Raith will fill the play-off places, with their final positions still to be finalised.

Alloa's relegation to League One was confirmed when they drew 0-0 at Livingston on 2 April. The ninth-placed team - probably Livingston or Dumbarton - will enter a play-off with three League One sides.

SCOTTISH LEAGUE ONE
Dunfermline Athletic have been promoted to the Championship after clinching the title on 26 March by beating Brechin City 3-1. The next three teams will enter a play-off with the ninth-placed Championship side, with Peterhead and Ayr United guaranteed to be two of those three.

The bottom team will be relegated to League Two, with the ninth-placed team entering a play-off. The battle to beat the drop is still wide open, only five points separating the bottom four teams - Cowdenbeath, Stenhousemuir, Brechin and Forfar - with two games left.

SCOTTISH LEAGUE TWO

East Fife have been promoted to League One as champions, winning the title on 16 April after a 0-0 stalemate at second-placed Clyde. The teams finishing second, third and fourth will enter a play-off with the ninth-placed League One team.

East Stirling will finish bottom after they were beaten 3-0 by Queen's Park on 9 April. They will enter a play-off against the winner of a two-legged tie between Highland League champions Cove Rangers and Lowland League winners Edinburgh City for the final place in next season's League Two.